Master Yoda is one of the main
characters of the Star Wars movies he
has a leading role in educating the
audience about a Jedi philosophy which
has quite some similarities with
Buddhism and stoicism during the
original trilogy in which he trains Luke
Skywalker Yoda often enlightens us with
his wisdom and in the prequels he's a
prominent factor in the development of
Anakin Skywalker and his transition to
the darkside in this video I would like
to talk about Jedi philosophy by
exploring the wisdom of Yoda
Yoda is a small green creature and one
of the most powerful Jedi the Jedi are a
quasi-military sztyc organization with a
very strong spiritual tradition they are
the wielders of what they call the force
which is a metaphysical all-encompassing
power that's present in everything our
senses perceive and beyond it's
comparable with the Taoist concept of
the dao along with its vagueness and
elusiveness and also reminds me of the
stoic idea of Numa the great a life
force that sets the universe in motion
the Jedi are sensitive to the force
which means that they can wield it but
this comes with a great responsibility
and intensive training of the mind for
guidance the Jedi use profound wisdom
which can also help us here in the
quote-unquote real world to lead better
lives in the movies Yoda is one of the
main sources of Jedi wisdom and I would
like to explore four of his ideas in
this video and back them up with similar
philosophical concepts that we can find
in Buddhism and stoicism warning this
video contains some minor spoilers now
let's dive in one detachment sets us
free when we attach ourselves to people
or things
the consequence is that we become afraid
to lose them that's why it's important
to dissolve our fears by cultivating a
healthy detachment rather than clinging
to what we encounter during our
lifetimes this is a main Buddhist
concept and with Star Wars creator
George Lucas being a Buddhist Methodist
it's no surprise that this epic space
opera has many Buddhist influences an
essential part of the Star Wars
bloodline is the romantic love affair
between Anakin Skywalker and Padme
Anakin who is destined to become a Jedi
falls head-over-heels in love with Padme
leading to a secret relationship in
which he builds an unhealthy attachment
to her the reason for this secrecy is
that romantic love is not permitted
within the Jedi Order because it's a
birthplace for strong attachments with
all dangers that come from them in a way
we can compare their approach
with monastics from many traditions
whose abstinence from romantic love is
an integral part of their spiritual path
anakin is unable to regulate his
feelings for Padme and preventing his
separation from her becomes his main
focus when he suffers from visions about
the future accompanied by a fear of loss
Yoda gently teaches him the dangers of
attachment attachment leads to jealousy
the shadow of greed that is Yoda tells
him this teaching was the cornerstone of
what turned out to be the greatest
tragedy of the story that Anakin turns
to the dark side because of his immense
fear to lose the person he's attached to
the most
according to Yoda the solution that sets
us free from the sufferings that
attachment causes is simple train
yourself to let go of everything you
fear to lose unfortunately Anakin fails
to do so despite his immense strength he
isn't strong enough to conquer his
desires which eventually leads him
astray to equanimity is key but not the
end goal the Jedi are the protectors of
peace and justice in the Galactic
Republic becoming a Jedi takes great
sacrifice
they are selfless and in service of
other people therefore there isn't room
for them to concern themselves with a
number of things adventure excitement a
Jedi craves not these things Yoda says
to Luke even though people may feel
attracted to the Jedi lifestyle because
of excitement and adventure these are
not the things a Jedi is after according
to Wikipedia it's quite a contrary and I
quote adhering to a doctrine that
favored the light side of the force the
Jedi aspired to attain a state of inner
tranquility through calmness and
meditation while avoiding emotions
affiliated with the dark side of the
force such as anger and hatred
nevertheless Jedi philosophy did not
forbid a Jedi from acting in
self-defence or any defense of others
and quote this combination of equanimity
and a struggle for good that shapes the
way of the Jedi reminds one of a stoic
concept called
eudaimonia even though inner tranquility
is part of this the goal is the pursuit
of virtue
so the Jedi actually have a very stoic
mindset in the movies we can see this
pursuit of equanimity often by the
meditation and mindfulness exercises
that the Jedi engage in this also
protects them from the dark side
because being mindful means that we can
more easily detect when problematic
emotions start to creep up on us 3 fear
leads us into darkness probably the most
famous quote by Yoda is this one fear is
the path to the dark side fear leads to
anger anger leads to hate hate leads to
suffering now I think it's a good idea
to analyze this quote a bit further
looking at the story of Anakin and Padme
Yoda already sensed a vulnerability in
Anakin's heart when he was younger
and initially did not see him fit for
Jedi training however his fellow Jedi
qui-gon was so impressed by Anakin's
power that he insisted to train him
Anakin's background his traumatic he
grows up as a slave on deserts planet
Tatooine with his mother ish me he
doesn't have a father and experiences
his mother dying in his arms when he's a
young man because of these events he
develops a fear of abandonment this fear
strongly manifests when he is
romantically involved with Padme and he
suffers from an ongoing fear of losing
her which he often dreams of Judah tells
him that the future at the end of the
day is uncertain that he should be
careful when sensing the future this is
profound when we look at it the future
is not only the domain of death and
decay of ourselves and those around us
it's also the source of all anxieties we
have anakin in this case becomes
obsessed with the future and he desires
to control it so he can assure himself
that he won't be separated from Padme
this is impossible of course because of
his fear of separation
Anakin also develops feelings of
resentment towards everything that he
perceives as a threat the emperor who
embodies the dark side in the story sees
Anakin sphere as an opportunity to
seduce him to the dark side so we can
use him
as a puppet slowly we see how fear
becomes Anakin's master and that many
problematic emotions arise along the way
this includes his anger towards his
friend obi-wan Kenobi eventually and it
can accuse his obi-wan of turning Padme
against him and eventually he tells him
that he hates him
he doesn't just hate obi-wan but the
entire Jedi Order that he sees as an
obstacle to reach his goal in the end
cowards are those who follow the dark
side says Yoda which is true because
those who follow the dark side are led
by fear which is in essence the
definition of a coward for darkness will
consume us now it seems that many people
are blind when it comes to the risks of
following the path of darkness this path
is seductive easy and often doesn't
require much mental discipline it's more
attuned with our animalistic side our
passions and our will to dominate it's
undeniable that this path can lead to
boundless pleasure but there's also a
price to pay when we choose this
direction once you start down the dark
path forever it will dominate your
destiny consume you it will Yoda says in
Buddhism there is a concept called
samsara which means the cycle of life
and death which is a process full of
suffering part of this suffering is
desire aversion and also ignorance when
we are constantly led by our cravings
our aversion and operate in a state of
ignorance we'll move to the lowest
regions of samsara also known as hell in
which we suffer deeply similarly the
stories have their definition of vice
they divided it into foolishness
injustice cowardice and intemperance
and following the path of Vice leads to
suffering we see this descend into
suffering with Anakin Skywalker who
slowly turns more miserable during his
pursuit of power the tragic reality is
that no matter how strong and powerful
he becomes you'll never have full
control over his fate we can see that he
offers more and more of himself to reach
an impossible goal which only generates
more suffering
when Padme dies
the Emperor tells Anakin that he killed
her in his anger which isn't entirely
true but this creates enormous grief and
also a form of toxic guilt within Anakin
which makes him even easier to control
so darkness will not only harm ourselves
but those around us as well it will lead
to destruction and this destruction will
contribute to our suffering in return to
wrap it up the Jedi are a fictional
group but their wisdom is profound and
effectively expressed by the character
of Yoda a story like Star Wars may seem
insignificant to some but it contains a
valuable message for Humanity we are a
powerful species with the ability to
destroy our planet with the push on a
button therefore it's extra important to
as the Stoics would say keep our faculty
in order
Yoda is aware of the dangers of an
untrained mind and to rampant
problematic emotions and if we don't
take care of our mental hygiene we are
at risk to slide away into darkness
looking at the ever-growing mite of our
species being led by our animalistic
desires our anger our hate is a recipe
for disaster
thank you for watching
[Music]